hey everybody welcome to the q a session for jump cannon um and i think for jump cannon um and i think uh yeah jeff neal already asked three uh yeah jeff neal already asked three questions questions if we want to jump into those uh his if we want to jump into those uh his first question was first question was has the name been chosen yet has the name been chosen yet the second question uh was what is the the second question uh was what is the approximate test net month of launch and approximate test net month of launch and then uh the same question for mainnet i then uh the same question for mainnet i can uh try some of these things so uh can uh try some of these things so uh the name has not been selected yet the name has not been selected yet hopefully within a week or two we can uh hopefully within a week or two we can uh uh answer that question uh answer that question um um the the generally speaking the main at launch is generally speaking the main at launch is scheduled for enevir scheduled for enevir and it might slip into next year because and it might slip into next year because in the past we've learned that in the past we've learned that making like a major release at the end making like a major release at the end of the year is probably not the best of the year is probably not the best thing to do thing to do uh so we expect uh end of december uh so we expect uh end of december beginning of january for may net and beginning of january for may net and then end of november a month before that
then end of november a month before that for testnet for testnet um and um and um you know the couple of months before um you know the couple of months before that were already that were already uh slated to have a like experimental uh slated to have a like experimental future net so just like a dedicated test future net so just like a dedicated test net to uh to work with smart contracts net to uh to work with smart contracts on on and uh and uh just just for the full loop we also expect that by for the full loop we also expect that by the end of this month you'll already be the end of this month you'll already be able to deploy contracts locally in a able to deploy contracts locally in a sandbox using the sdk sandbox using the sdk it's a future very cool it's a future very cool let's get people to ask questions in let's get people to ask questions in voice it's uh more interactive yeah go voice it's uh more interactive yeah go ahead and uh ahead and uh submit a request to speak if you'd like submit a request to speak if you'd like to ask a question we will pull you on up to ask a question we will pull you on up put you in front of the class uh while put you in front of the class uh while we wait for people to oh never mind we wait for people to oh never mind we've got a request we've got a request all right life learner all right life learner yes thank you um yes thank you um what do you see or do you have any what do you see or do you have any initial projects initial projects uh in the pipeline for the end of year uh in the pipeline for the end of year when you when you do the release
when you when you do the release so can you repeat the beginning of the so can you repeat the beginning of the question i missed that so let me let me try again um do you have any projects in the pipeline have any projects in the pipeline uh for the initial release uh we're talking with several companies that are interested in building on that are interested in building on stellar i can't uh disclose names right stellar i can't uh disclose names right now because nothing is is finalized uh now because nothing is is finalized uh but you know like the but you know like the um um the usual suspects of um you know like the usual suspects of um you know like amms and various um amms and various um you know lending protocols you know lending protocols right uh yeah the keep those requests right uh yeah the keep those requests coming um coming um tomer do you think we're gonna see uh tomer do you think we're gonna see uh dowels being established through those dowels being established through those smart contracts uh i'm sure we'll see smart contracts uh i'm sure we'll see dows yes dows yes what is the first dow you would like to what is the first dow you would like to see see um i would like to see a dao um i would like to see a dao for for a dow building platform a dow building platform so
so cool yeah cool yeah great answer yeah great answer yeah yeah i think i'm still i'm stealing this yeah i think i'm still i'm stealing this from jason our ceo oh he has he's also from jason our ceo oh he has he's also expressed an interest in the past and expressed an interest in the past and having like a dow dow i mean it's got a having like a dow dow i mean it's got a ring to it ring to it uh john jove uh john jove what uh what's going on with the token what uh what's going on with the token contract uh it's in progress um contract uh it's in progress um it exists although i i actually don't it exists although i i actually don't think i've posted anything publicly think i've posted anything publicly really about it i mean lee and i were really about it i mean lee and i were just talking about it a second ago but just talking about it a second ago but uh maybe i should actually post a link uh maybe i should actually post a link to the repo it lives in um to the repo it lives in um but but tell us a bit about the token contract tell us a bit about the token contract i mean there's uh i mean there's uh there's not a ton to say it's a it's a there's not a ton to say it's a it's a token token uh it looks a lot like um uh it looks a lot like um like an erc20 token with the exception like an erc20 token with the exception that like everything is done in the that like everything is done in the style of eip 2612 permits so there's style of eip 2612 permits so there's lots of signatures being passed around lots of signatures being passed around uh that makes it really flexible uh that makes it really flexible um what i what is built so now what is um what i what is built so now what is built so far isn't actually like
built so far isn't actually like compliant with the spec that we compliant with the spec that we published for it published for it um but i'm going to work on getting it um but i'm going to work on getting it closer to spec in the next couple of closer to spec in the next couple of days days so probably by like i don't know i don't so probably by like i don't know i don't want to say the end of this week but the want to say the end of this week but the end of next week it'll probably be end of next week it'll probably be pretty close and pretty reasonable it pretty close and pretty reasonable it won't have all the functionality but won't have all the functionality but it'll be pretty close it'll be pretty close um i'm going to post a link to that in um i'm going to post a link to that in jump cannon right now so give me a jump cannon right now so give me a second second that's awesome that's awesome uh it works i've tested it locally it uh it works i've tested it locally it does seem to work does seem to work and can you um and can you um share with the audience what is the share with the audience what is the story with eip 2612 story with eip 2612 what what does it improve on the erc20 what what does it improve on the erc20 contract contract uh yeah that's uh that's a good question uh yeah that's uh that's a good question so basically this um eip2612 uh which i so basically this um eip2612 uh which i always refer to as eip2612 permit always refer to as eip2612 permit because permit is like the target because permit is like the target function that this whole thing was done function that this whole thing was done for for um basically was an improvement on the um basically was an improvement on the classic erc20 approved flow classic erc20 approved flow so you know basically at the beginning
so you know basically at the beginning of the whole erc experience or the erc20 of the whole erc experience or the erc20 experience what you would do is you're experience what you would do is you're like okay i have this contract i want to like okay i have this contract i want to interact with it i'm going to approve it interact with it i'm going to approve it to transfer balance from my account and to transfer balance from my account and so you submit a transaction so you submit a transaction uh on ethereum you wait for some you uh on ethereum you wait for some you know uh know uh there's some confirmations and there's some confirmations and eventually you're like okay this is eventually you're like okay this is final and we're happy and you submit final and we're happy and you submit another transaction another transaction that actually does the um that actually does the um that actually like you know lets the con that actually like you know lets the con interact with the contract form by interact with the contract form by itself itself um um and so basically you first paid cash gas and so basically you first paid cash gas through the first thing and then you pay through the first thing and then you pay gas to the second thing gas to the second thing um with eip eip2612 permit you do this um with eip eip2612 permit you do this all as a single transaction by just all as a single transaction by just passing a signature passing a signature to this permit uh like a signature to this permit uh like a signature to this um to this um to the contract in the first place and to the contract in the first place and then it uses the signature on the permit then it uses the signature on the permit function and the permit verifies the function and the permit verifies the signature and then does the same stuff signature and then does the same stuff that approve would have done that approve would have done so it's basically this like ergonomics so it's basically this like ergonomics improvement improvement um um and so kind of everything here works
and so kind of everything here works like that so you get that kind of like that so you get that kind of ergonomics improvement everywhere so would it be um correct to say that the ip2612 basically the ip2612 basically uh uh uh like separates the uh like separates the the kind of like who's submitting that the kind of like who's submitting that transaction from like who's authorizing transaction from like who's authorizing the the the the moving of the funds moving of the funds that's exactly right that's exactly right okay okay um um around around sorry um sorry um you want to go do you want me to go you want to go do you want me to go you go you go a lot of the conversation around eip a lot of the conversation around eip 2612 was around this like uh this 2612 was around this like uh this gasless concept basically like gasless concept basically like i shouldn't need to have an account that i shouldn't need to have an account that has money in it basically to do stuff or has money in it basically to do stuff or has ethernet has ethernet and so this really like these kinds of and so this really like these kinds of like you know me passing around a like you know me passing around a signature and letting somebody else act signature and letting somebody else act on it makes these uh kind of gases on it makes these uh kind of gases concepts much much easier very cool concepts much much easier very cool that's exactly what i was about to say that's exactly what i was about to say we have another question from the
we have another question from the audience um sorry if i mispronounced audience um sorry if i mispronounced your name but jason godev asked given your name but jason godev asked given that stellar has some built-in that stellar has some built-in operations that serve off-chain scripts operations that serve off-chain scripts and apps already what use cases will and apps already what use cases will smart contracts serve that is not smart contracts serve that is not possible with the current sdks possible with the current sdks um so the current sdks are just like um so the current sdks are just like extremely or you know the current extremely or you know the current protocol is consist consists of around protocol is consist consists of around 20 uh high-level operations 20 uh high-level operations uh which doesn't really allow you uh which doesn't really allow you to to um to like you know express a lot of um to like you know express a lot of things so say for example that i wanna things so say for example that i wanna uh introduce an amm that is uh that's uh introduce an amm that is uh that's built on a curve that's not supported by built on a curve that's not supported by the native amms on stellar like table the native amms on stellar like table swap swap um or let's say that i want to have like um or let's say that i want to have like a you know like a trust minimized a you know like a trust minimized lending protocol lending protocol um or kind of like a non-trivial size um or kind of like a non-trivial size dow that does um dow that does um uh that has like you know stake weighted uh that has like you know stake weighted voting uh trust minimized so all these voting uh trust minimized so all these things are like not really doable today
things are like not really doable today great if anyone from the audience has great if anyone from the audience has any questions feel free to drop them any questions feel free to drop them into live chat uh the tech's channel or into live chat uh the tech's channel or you can uh go ahead and uh request to be you can uh go ahead and uh request to be on the stage and ask your question on the stage and ask your question through voice maybe in the meantime lee through voice maybe in the meantime lee can give us a quick update on what's the can give us a quick update on what's the status of the sdk status of the sdk what should we be expecting uh for this what should we be expecting uh for this like july iteration like july iteration and what are you and what are you lee most excited about yeah i mean we're lee most excited about yeah i mean we're still we're still working on the sdk uh still we're still working on the sdk uh john has proven that you can build john has proven that you can build something with it which is fantastic um something with it which is fantastic um at this point at this point um the api is still relatively unstable um the api is still relatively unstable um so i mean as as we talked just before um so i mean as as we talked just before um um just before uh just before uh this event uh i'm this event uh i'm adding things like iterators slicing to adding things like iterators slicing to vectors and vectors and um you know there's certain things about um you know there's certain things about the api events that are probably going the api events that are probably going to change in the next few days to to to change in the next few days to to make them more ergonomic to make them make them more ergonomic to make them safe to use um and so we we are really
safe to use um and so we we are really still still the sdks uh really young and we're still the sdks uh really young and we're still yeah making a lot of changes to it and yeah making a lot of changes to it and uh you know the end of by the time we uh you know the end of by the time we come to the end of july hopefully we come to the end of july hopefully we have a lot of the building blocks have a lot of the building blocks um um the primitives there the primitives there in a in a somewhat stable state even though the somewhat stable state even though the sdk is in flash blocks i do want to uh sdk is in flash blocks i do want to uh emphasize that it is quite sleek like emphasize that it is quite sleek like the stuff that works when it it's pretty the stuff that works when it it's pretty cool it's very kind of easy to use so uh cool it's very kind of easy to use so uh i had a good experience working with i had a good experience working with that is the sdk something people can that is the sdk something people can look at right now today or is it as has look at right now today or is it as has it yet to be put out into the wild it yet to be put out into the wild i mean the code is is public it's on i mean the code is is public it's on github um it's uh just go to github.com github um it's uh just go to github.com stellar and i'm sure you'll find it stellar and i'm sure you'll find it uh the docs aren't up yet um the uh the docs aren't up yet um the anywhere in particular for it just yet anywhere in particular for it just yet uh so uh so um you know um you know if you're looking for docs then you know if you're looking for docs then you know that's not out yet but uh we should have
that's not out yet but uh we should have docks out with you know the july release docks out with you know the july release at the end of july at the end of july yeah and john's token contract is yeah and john's token contract is actually a really good uh starting point actually a really good uh starting point right now because it's uh it uses the right now because it's uh it uses the sdk it's uh fairly sdk it's uh fairly readable and ergonomic and well readable and ergonomic and well organized organized for someone who who's maybe not familiar for someone who who's maybe not familiar with the way that rust works tomer like with the way that rust works tomer like if they do go look at john's token if they do go look at john's token contract what should they look at first contract what should they look at first uh so uh so at any at any rust uh rust uh i don't remember the lingo but you i don't remember the lingo but you should look at the lib rs file because should look at the lib rs file because that's like the entry point for any that's like the entry point for any uh code that is not uh executable uh code that is not uh executable general good guideline for looking at general good guideline for looking at like um a jump can and contract with the like um a jump can and contract with the sdk would be to go and find a function sdk would be to go and find a function with the with the text contract fn with the with the text contract fn directly above it directly above it um if you see that you know that's an um if you see that you know that's an entry point to the contract and then you entry point to the contract and then you can go and see what it does by following can go and see what it does by following that through um in my particular case
that through um in my particular case right now like tomer's advice was good right now like tomer's advice was good all of those functions are in lib.rs all of those functions are in lib.rs but i actually have a like a refactor but i actually have a like a refactor that changes that and puts them all off that changes that and puts them all off into a separate file so that would still into a separate file so that would still allow you to find the right stuff allow you to find the right stuff and i think the other thing to look out and i think the other thing to look out for too is uh you'll also see types that for too is uh you'll also see types that are um are um that have an attribute like contract that have an attribute like contract type at the top of them and they're all type at the top of them and they're all types that will end up either in the api types that will end up either in the api or will end up being stored um so if or will end up being stored um so if you're familiar with like the ethereum you're familiar with like the ethereum api or like what api or like what types that get generated in other types that get generated in other ecosystems ecosystems looking for that contrapti tag uh you looking for that contrapti tag uh you know types that are going to be know types that are going to be interesting for you to look at interesting for you to look at lee can you talk a bit about uh testing lee can you talk a bit about uh testing in our contracts i know that testing is in our contracts i know that testing is like a big issue in the world of um you like a big issue in the world of um you know solidity smart contracts i know know solidity smart contracts i know there are a lot of frameworks to there are a lot of frameworks to facilitate that facilitate that uh what's what's my strategy as a person uh what's what's my strategy as a person who's like developing for jump cannon who's like developing for jump cannon yeah it's a great question uh we really
yeah it's a great question uh we really want testing to be want testing to be um um like really smooth uh like really smooth uh mostly because uh you know we want mostly because uh you know we want people to ride tests people to ride tests whenever whenever there's a barrier to whenever whenever there's a barrier to entry to writing tests entry to writing tests you know let's admit it as engineers you know let's admit it as engineers it's it's tempting not to so it's it's tempting not to so um um write write tests in terms of a jump cannon contract tests in terms of a jump cannon contract that's written in rust will be tests that's written in rust will be tests that you can run locally on your that you can run locally on your computer in your id so if you're using computer in your id so if you're using an an ide like ide like vs code um you'll be able to just run vs code um you'll be able to just run those tests like you would any other those tests like you would any other rust test rust test your writing and your writing and in that uh in that uh in that test you'll have access to in that test you'll have access to a host that acts a host that acts very much like very much like the the runtime environment that your contract runtime environment that your contract will actually run on chain and the will actually run on chain and the reason acts very much like it is because reason acts very much like it is because it's actually backed by the same code it's actually backed by the same code because the the runtime environment is because the the runtime environment is written in rust in stellar core and so written in rust in stellar core and so we basically import that into the tests
we basically import that into the tests and we're running the contract within it and we're running the contract within it and much of the mechanics of that we're and much of the mechanics of that we're still working through that and still working through that and um john and um john and others are others are really help identifying like where the really help identifying like where the gaps are that we need to fill in to make gaps are that we need to fill in to make it work as smoothly as possible um for it work as smoothly as possible um for everybody but everybody but um yeah you'll be ideally be able to um yeah you'll be ideally be able to construct a couple of contracts um and construct a couple of contracts um and then you know run them in your test and then you know run them in your test and then inspect you know here's the here's then inspect you know here's the here's the state of the ledger the state of the ledger um after running them and be able to you um after running them and be able to you know write assertions about okay you know write assertions about okay you know you expect the balance of this know you expect the balance of this account to change by this much or the account to change by this much or the balance of this token for that account i balance of this token for that account i mean mean um and um and uh it it'll be all running locally on uh it it'll be all running locally on your system um your system um and you'll be out which means you'll be and you'll be out which means you'll be out of you know step three debug inspect out of you know step three debug inspect the values of variables the values of variables and different things like that and different things like that step three debug a smart contract that's step three debug a smart contract that's pretty pretty wild
okay i see we have a bunch of people uh joined we are talking about jump cannon joined we are talking about jump cannon uh uh type of stuff that we're gonna see type of stuff that we're gonna see uh coming in the next few weeks uh coming in the next few weeks um and we're happy to take questions and we have a question in the text chat from matthias uh he says with smart from matthias uh he says with smart contract support i wonder if you see a contract support i wonder if you see a possibility to build an infrastructure possibility to build an infrastructure like layer two of apps tap chain like layer two of apps tap chain side chains using stellar as their layer side chains using stellar as their layer one one uh yeah definitely we're um uh we also uh yeah definitely we're um uh we also had some folks um had some folks um looking at potential like what type of looking at potential like what type of crypto primitives do we need to do zk crypto primitives do we need to do zk roll ups in an efficient matter so i roll ups in an efficient matter so i don't think this these are things that don't think this these are things that we're going to see immediately like at we're going to see immediately like at launch this year the beginning of next launch this year the beginning of next year but uh with time we definitely year but uh with time we definitely expect expect more more sophisticated l2 constructions uh to sophisticated l2 constructions uh to show up show up um these will probably take the form of
um these will probably take the form of zika rollups uh and the cool thing is zika rollups uh and the cool thing is that you can actually that you can actually um um uh you know like the zika roll-up uh can uh you know like the zika roll-up uh can can be something else from jump cannon can be something else from jump cannon it can obviously be like another the it can obviously be like another the same execution engine but it can also be same execution engine but it can also be something like an evm so you can have something like an evm so you can have like an evm roll up running on like a like an evm roll up running on like a stellar base chain which is pretty cool stellar base chain which is pretty cool what about you same question that you what about you same question that you asked lee what are you most excited asked lee what are you most excited about for for the launch of smart about for for the launch of smart contracts on stellar like what would you contracts on stellar like what would you most like to see most like to see uh i really love the fact uh i really love the fact that uh the sdk uh like builds on rust that uh the sdk uh like builds on rust so you can use like the entire ecosystem so you can use like the entire ecosystem of rust um tooling they're at your of rust um tooling they're at your disposal so you can do things like use disposal so you can do things like use rust tooling for fuzzying uh or you know rust tooling for fuzzying uh or you know the type of the type of testing frameworks that lee pointed out testing frameworks that lee pointed out um um and you know most uh most of all i'm and you know most uh most of all i'm just like really excited to see what just like really excited to see what others build uh and what are the things others build uh and what are the things that we're not thinking about right now
that we're not thinking about right now in terms of getting other people to in terms of getting other people to build you know we're just starting to build you know we're just starting to think about this but like think about this but like someone wants to get involved what's the someone wants to get involved what's the best way for them to to start getting best way for them to to start getting involved so involved so right now i would say that uh things are right now i would say that uh things are kind of like all over the place in terms kind of like all over the place in terms of uh you know you can start reading of uh you know you can start reading caps um i would like i said before i caps um i would like i said before i think the the best entry point right now think the the best entry point right now is through is through john's contract because it's the most john's contract because it's the most like comprehensive and up-to-date jump like comprehensive and up-to-date jump cannon contract cannon contract and just like learn from that and just like learn from that we are working on a set of docs we are working on a set of docs that should be live by the end of this that should be live by the end of this month month and these will relate to just like and these will relate to just like learning about how this whole thing learning about how this whole thing works uh some examples and tutorials works uh some examples and tutorials around how to around how to uh like write a basic contract and use uh like write a basic contract and use the sdk the sdk it will really be focused on like the it will really be focused on like the local local uh sandbox developer experience so you uh sandbox developer experience so you don't need to know you don't need to know you funny enough you don't really need to funny enough you don't really need to know anything about stellar in order to
know anything about stellar in order to start developing for this you don't even start developing for this you don't even need to have need to have to be talking to a stellar network all to be talking to a stellar network all you need is like this local uh sandbox you need is like this local uh sandbox that's in the sdk i also have another that's in the sdk i also have another question from matthias um in terms of question from matthias um in terms of infrastructure what would be your top infrastructure what would be your top number one priority for smart contracts number one priority for smart contracts projects projects says he's thinking on stellar mainstream says he's thinking on stellar mainstream stream adoption stream adoption time frame q3 slash q4 2022 so time frame q3 slash q4 2022 so infrastructure infrastructure number one priority number one priority allow people to build smart contracts allow people to build smart contracts yeah i would say that the the composable yeah i would say that the the composable like defy like defy uh lego blocks so things like uh lego blocks so things like um amm specifically the type of amms um amm specifically the type of amms that we don't have natively uh in that we don't have natively uh in stellar things like uh you know stable stellar things like uh you know stable swap uh things like uni swap v3 swap uh things like uni swap v3 um uh definitely um uh definitely um interesting interested in seeing um interesting interested in seeing things like compound things like compound um and i would love to see uh some
um and i would love to see uh some uh infrastructure for to start building uh infrastructure for to start building downs downs no one on this call has this question no one on this call has this question but definitely when i start to talk to but definitely when i start to talk to people about people about about this process the first question about this process the first question that people have is like oh is this evm that people have is like oh is this evm compatible um compatible um can you just can you just give a brief like highlight about the give a brief like highlight about the choices the tech stack choices and why choices the tech stack choices and why why we made them yeah sure so we actually put out a blog post a couple months ago around why we post a couple months ago around why we decided to uh to go with wasm decided to uh to go with wasm and we outlined a few options that we and we outlined a few options that we that we considered but ended up not that we considered but ended up not going with you know the evm is like the going with you know the evm is like the big big uh elephant in the room obviously it's uh elephant in the room obviously it's on a bunch of uh different on a bunch of uh different um different chains from ethereum to um different chains from ethereum to avalanche avalanche and others and others but at you know the bottom line was that but at you know the bottom line was that we were looking for something that we we were looking for something that we can really uh scale the network with can really uh scale the network with and the evm
and the evm is you know has a lot of good things is you know has a lot of good things about it but about it but there are some kind of glaring issues there are some kind of glaring issues that we that we didn't really want to ignore didn't really want to ignore uh one of them is that uh uh one of them is that uh it just doesn't lend itself well to it just doesn't lend itself well to parallelism which is something that is parallelism which is something that is uh very important for us moving forward uh very important for us moving forward with the type of real world scale that with the type of real world scale that we're looking for we're looking for the other thing is that they were just a the other thing is that they were just a lot of uh foot guns uh in the evm and a lot of uh foot guns uh in the evm and a lot of ways to unintentionally um um do the wrong thing do the wrong thing so we wanted to make sure that we build so we wanted to make sure that we build something that is um you know it's something that is um you know it's batteries included you don't need to batteries included you don't need to you know like the token contract that you know like the token contract that john is building right now is going to john is building right now is going to be uh kind of like the native default be uh kind of like the native default way to build tokens on uh on job canada way to build tokens on uh on job canada so you wouldn't have to do stuff like so you wouldn't have to do stuff like deploy your own erc20 contract which you deploy your own erc20 contract which you know in the ethereum ecosystem everyone know in the ethereum ecosystem everyone just goes and like copy copy paste uh
just goes and like copy copy paste uh uh you know the open zeppelin erc20 uh you know the open zeppelin erc20 contract and a lot of other contracts as contract and a lot of other contracts as well well so there's a lot of small things where so there's a lot of small things where uh ethereum is not uh uh ethereum is not uh like like uh uh evm is not the friendliest for evm is not the friendliest for developers developers uh and we wanna make sure that we're uh and we wanna make sure that we're we're building uh something that's we're building uh something that's friendly for developers and builds for friendly for developers and builds for the future the future we have another question from uh mathias we have another question from uh mathias um evm compatibility uh you just need to um evm compatibility uh you just need to build on evm compatible using jump build on evm compatible using jump cannon smart contracts uh like cannon smart contracts uh like aurora.dev or near something to think aurora.dev or near something to think about uh to bring to some about uh to bring to some uh ethereum projects i guess not really uh ethereum projects i guess not really a question so much as a statement a question so much as a statement did end with a question mark though yeah did end with a question mark though yeah in my defense in my defense and i posted the um the wazon blog and and i posted the um the wazon blog and the live chat channel the live chat channel awesome um awesome um yeah i think aurora is a really uh is a yeah i think aurora is a really uh is a really interesting um really interesting um is a really interesting uh example of uh
is a really interesting uh example of uh you know i think both near and and you know i think both near and and avalanche avalanche um you know recognize that evm is not um you know recognize that evm is not really what they want to build on but at really what they want to build on but at that time from their perspective like that time from their perspective like the way to get to market was to have the way to get to market was to have something evm compatible right so you something evm compatible right so you know avalanche came up with the c chain know avalanche came up with the c chain which is which is um which is which is um evm compatible uh near came up with with evm compatible uh near came up with with aurora aurora um and like these are fine projects and um and like these are fine projects and they really show how like the you know they really show how like the you know the the developers of the chain themselves don't developers of the chain themselves don't necessarily think that the evm is the necessarily think that the evm is the way to go but they you know they way to go but they you know they they put in something um you know aurora they put in something um you know aurora is is a a complete evm that runs as a smart a a complete evm that runs as a smart contract contract which is a very interesting approach which is a very interesting approach uh it's it's pretty wasteful both in uh it's it's pretty wasteful both in terms of uh terms of uh kind of like time and space but it also kind of like time and space but it also kind of like kind of like um um it kind of like ruins the benefits that it kind of like ruins the benefits that you get from near right because now you
you get from near right because now you can't actually you know all the sharding can't actually you know all the sharding and the parallelism that you get from and the parallelism that you get from near you you don't get in aurora right near you you don't get in aurora right and if you look at the actual tps and if you look at the actual tps numbers then they are like extremely low numbers then they are like extremely low so i think there's like you know there so i think there's like you know there are pros and cons to every approach are pros and cons to every approach all right and uh moots has joined the all right and uh moots has joined the chat um you have a question chat um you have a question yeah i was just hoping to um ask about yeah i was just hoping to um ask about an update towards uh 55 i believe was an update towards uh 55 i believe was the number the number um i think the last um i think the last stellar dev chat we had was stellar dev chat we had was on some of the fee mechanics on some of the fee mechanics specifically the specifically the underlying state exploration underlying state exploration and i know that was a few weeks ago and and i know that was a few weeks ago and with july 4th and all i wasn't paying a with july 4th and all i wasn't paying a ton a ton of close attention so i was ton a ton of close attention so i was wondering if there was any updates you wondering if there was any updates you could provide and i know it might not be could provide and i know it might not be fair since niko's not here fair since niko's not here um but just kind of regarding that um but just kind of regarding that no that's great niko's not here so we no that's great niko's not here so we can talk about cap55 can talk about cap55 um um i would say that uh
i would say that uh we haven't we haven't uh there are some internal efforts uh to uh there are some internal efforts uh to uh to come up with uh to come up with uh like opposing caps uh like opposing caps uh so i i think that cap 55 in its uh so i i think that cap 55 in its current form current form um you know we all acknowledge that it's um you know we all acknowledge that it's a it's a huge a it's a huge um um it's it's different from anything other it's it's different from anything other than you have out there than you have out there and we want to make sure that we and we want to make sure that we consider all the alternatives uh before consider all the alternatives uh before taking such a step so taking such a step so the cap moods is talking about is cap 55 the cap moods is talking about is cap 55 it's around fees it's around fees most of it is around uh most of it is around uh like like gas and metering and uh or metering gas and metering and uh or metering computation and uh and and computation and uh and and kind of like state allocations kind of like state allocations that is the that is the the the the less offensive bit about cap 55 cap the less offensive bit about cap 55 cap 55 also presents this idea of like state 55 also presents this idea of like state expiration expiration which is that stake state can expire which is that stake state can expire after a specific time if it's not uh after a specific time if it's not uh used or not touched uh which is great in
used or not touched uh which is great in terms of uh making sure that the terms of uh making sure that the that the the ledger state size is that the the ledger state size is manageable manageable uh but introduces an additional level of uh but introduces an additional level of complexity for contract developers to complexity for contract developers to have to actually have to actually uh both contract developers and for uh both contract developers and for users to make sure that um you know users to make sure that um you know important state just doesn't like important state just doesn't like disappear into the abyss on that topic i highly recommend the talk given by uh the geth lead developer talk given by uh the geth lead developer uh last month in prague uh last month in prague around this uh around this uh uh uh kind of like time bomb that's in kind of like time bomb that's in basically like any uvm chain out there basically like any uvm chain out there which is uh you know like the state is which is uh you know like the state is growing in a rate where commodity growing in a rate where commodity hardware hardware won't be able to handle it um soon won't be able to handle it um soon enough and a lot of the evm chains out enough and a lot of the evm chains out there that are just kind of like there that are just kind of like cranking up the tps numbers they're just cranking up the tps numbers they're just uh gonna hit that wall uh a lot sooner
uh gonna hit that wall uh a lot sooner uh so you know we wanna make sure that uh so you know we wanna make sure that uh you know we're uh you know we're cognizant about this issue and and have cognizant about this issue and and have some uh some uh strategy to mitigate it strategy to mitigate it cool thanks for the update and we have a cool thanks for the update and we have a question from jason c uh question from jason c uh how is develop development of linking how is develop development of linking stellar classic tokens and their stellar classic tokens and their potential smart contract equivalents potential smart contract equivalents looking looking uh will classic tokens and their smart uh will classic tokens and their smart wrapped versions be interoperable in the wrapped versions be interoperable in the background background or will developers need to create their or will developers need to create their own wrapped versions that users will own wrapped versions that users will need to trade between need to trade between this one's for me i can tell this one's for me i can tell um um so so this is a good question this is a good question and the and the wrong one wrong one the interoperability the interoperability really comes from the contracts that really comes from the contracts that smart uh rather the smart uh rather the the contracts that other developers the contracts that other developers built built the native token contract that we're the native token contract that we're going to provide going to provide is going to have good interoperability is going to have good interoperability between classic assets and
between classic assets and smart assets so you know smart assets so you know basically if you use that and you know basically if you use that and you know the contract that you build is the contract that you build is compatible with that compatible with that uh contract the native contract then uh contract the native contract then you're good to go you're good to go but like let's say that you like some but like let's say that you like some other kind of you know token you know on other kind of you know token you know on ethereum there are more types of tokens ethereum there are more types of tokens than just erc20 tokens than just erc20 tokens um um maybe that's not a good compatibility maybe that's not a good compatibility fit for you and then you don't get the fit for you and then you don't get the interoperability guaranteed interoperability guaranteed but but in like the most basic case where you in like the most basic case where you have a stellar asset classic asset it's have a stellar asset classic asset it's fun it's like a fundable asset like fun it's like a fundable asset like it's a it's a argentinian peso for example um argentinian peso for example um then like you should expect to have then like you should expect to have excellent interoperability with with a excellent interoperability with with a smart contract assuming that the native smart contract assuming that the native contract we're providing is widely contract we're providing is widely adopted i'm saying adopted i'm saying same question regarding nfts um same question regarding nfts um sorry i think i just cut you off john sorry i think i just cut you off john but i think you were just going to read but i think you were just going to read that question out right that question out right yeah i was going to do that i was also yeah i was going to do that i was also going to ask if jason was the ceo um and
going to ask if jason was the ceo um and then i asked that question with regard to the uh to the nfts uh tomer has asked me the same question uh tomer has asked me the same question about like what we should be doing for about like what we should be doing for like nft interoperability against like like nft interoperability against like classic nfts classic nfts uh and i basically told tomer like i uh and i basically told tomer like i haven't thought about and i'll think haven't thought about and i'll think about it in august about it in august so i don't know the answers to that so i don't know the answers to that question yet question yet um um tomer might have some insights on that tomer might have some insights on that regard in terms of what he thinks should regard in terms of what he thinks should happen so i'll turn it over to tomorrow happen so i'll turn it over to tomorrow here here um yeah i think that's a that's a very um yeah i think that's a that's a very good question that we need to to figure good question that we need to to figure out uh out uh i don't think uh fred is in the audience i don't think uh fred is in the audience right now but i would love to get fred's right now but i would love to get fred's take on it uh whether we need to have take on it uh whether we need to have this like this like opinionated uh like default nft contract opinionated uh like default nft contract um you know the type of nfts that you um you know the type of nfts that you can issue in uh and by enlightenment can issue in uh and by enlightenment today uh are still interoperable with today uh are still interoperable with jump cannon uh in the sense that any uh jump cannon uh in the sense that any uh token from classic is interoperable
token from classic is interoperable through these like rap tokens through these like rap tokens uh the question uh the question is is do we want to introduce uh like a native do we want to introduce uh like a native representation uh on on the on the smart representation uh on on the on the smart side and what form should it take should side and what form should it take should it just be it just be like this regular token with uh you know like this regular token with uh you know with like zero decimal places with like zero decimal places um those are open questions and i think we need to kind of like survey need to kind of like survey nft contracts in the ecosystem to better nft contracts in the ecosystem to better understand that understand that um and that's like john said that work um and that's like john said that work is slated for next month all right uh is slated for next month all right uh matthias has another question i'm glad matthias has another question i'm glad he labeled it as a question for me are he labeled it as a question for me are there any current education uh stellar there any current education uh stellar partners such as stellar quest or the partners such as stellar quest or the like uh working on trading and or like uh working on trading and or education in preparation for jump education in preparation for jump cannons launch cannons launch smooth onboarding for devs smooth onboarding for devs uh no not yet but that's definitely uh no not yet but that's definitely planned um you know like i said right planned um you know like i said right now the um you know the docs and the now the um you know the docs and the materials are just like not in a place
materials are just like not in a place where uh where uh where it's easy to onboard uh but it's a where it's easy to onboard uh but it's a it's a very top priority for us to get it's a very top priority for us to get there there i think maybe seashells wanted to be in i think maybe seashells wanted to be in the recording um so seashells has uh the recording um so seashells has uh wished us all a happy thursday wished us all a happy thursday we have pantheon wants to speak we have pantheon wants to speak here you go here you go i just i don't know if you can answer i just i don't know if you can answer this quickly or not it's more of a this quickly or not it's more of a security question as to uh do you see security question as to uh do you see any security flaws with this platform or any security flaws with this platform or any potential uh issues any potential uh issues uh particularly uh particularly right now if current security flaws if right now if current security flaws if if someone gets a hold of your secret if someone gets a hold of your secret key your wallet's exposed uh would this key your wallet's exposed uh would this smart contract be kind of in the same smart contract be kind of in the same situation where if someone has situation where if someone has a secret key access that's that the a secret key access that's that the whole smart contract is now exposed or whole smart contract is now exposed or um um i would say that smart contracts i would say that smart contracts introduce um
introduce um a lot of a lot of you know they allow you know they allow contract developers to write arbitrary contract developers to write arbitrary code code that is deployed on chain that is deployed on chain it's uh it's uh it definitely it definitely is is more powerful than the current protocol more powerful than the current protocol but it definitely but it definitely gives developers some more rope to hang gives developers some more rope to hang themselves with themselves with uh from the actual platform security uh from the actual platform security perspective we're planning on multiple perspective we're planning on multiple audits uh to ensure that uh the platform audits uh to ensure that uh the platform itself is uh itself is uh is safe is safe with that said with that said uh you know it's uh you know it's it's impossible it's impossible to to enforce safeness in the protocol level enforce safeness in the protocol level and it will be and it will be up to developers uh to ensure that the up to developers uh to ensure that the contracts that they write are safe we contracts that they write are safe we are going to are going to publish a lot of information on how to publish a lot of information on how to maintain security maintain security and we are also planning on a grants and we are also planning on a grants program that will include
program that will include grants for auditing grants for auditing but at the end of the day um there how should i put it uh how should i put it uh you know like shitty code will exist and it will be unsafe you can never stop it but uh yeah uh i just want to know the yeah uh i just want to know the likelihood and like likelihood and like sort of the the system that's being sort of the the system that's being created uh the the possibility of of created uh the the possibility of of that happening but overall thank you for that happening but overall thank you for the answering that the answering that we have one more question from the text we have one more question from the text channel um can you talk a little bit channel um can you talk a little bit about anchors and jump canon yeah so about anchors and jump canon yeah so from the anchors perspective they don't from the anchors perspective they don't actually need to uh to change anything actually need to uh to change anything about their offerings about their offerings because you know the type of assets that because you know the type of assets that they're dealing with are classic assets they're dealing with are classic assets and they can and they can uh so nothing really changes about about uh so nothing really changes about about the on and off ramp the on and off ramp um if um if if they're um if they're um you know they could if they choose to um
you know they could if they choose to um on-ramp directly to smart to the smart on-ramp directly to smart to the smart side um or allow off-ramping through side um or allow off-ramping through that uh but we expect wallets to be able that uh but we expect wallets to be able to to to officially move assets between these to officially move assets between these two sides so two sides so that is not necessarily a required that is not necessarily a required thing thing for for you know for issuers you know for issuers even issuers of classic assets even issuers of classic assets could could with their existing issue or with their existing issue or authorization they can move to mint over authorization they can move to mint over on the on the on the smart side for the same asset the on the smart side for the same asset the exact same asset exact same asset one advantage of that you know we hear a one advantage of that you know we hear a lot from uh from issuers lot from uh from issuers that that uh stellar's model of like uh implicit uh stellar's model of like uh implicit uh minting through payments uh is uh minting through payments uh is sometimes sometimes a bit idiosyncratic idiosyncratic for a bit idiosyncratic idiosyncratic for how they do things on other networks and how they do things on other networks and the nice thing about the the nice thing about the the standard token contract on the smart the standard token contract on the smart
the standard token contract on the smart side is that there's an explicit mint side is that there's an explicit mint operation operation uh which makes things a bit more uh which makes things a bit more palatable so uh maybe we'll see issuers palatable so uh maybe we'll see issuers move to move to minting on the smart side but i'm not minting on the smart side but i'm not sure sure um so i think we're we passed the 35 um so i think we're we passed the 35 minute mark and uh if there are no other minute mark and uh if there are no other questions uh maybe we can uh call it a questions uh maybe we can uh call it a day day if you do have other questions for us if you do have other questions for us come find us in the jump cannon channel come find us in the jump cannon channel we're uh you can probably tell that we're uh you can probably tell that we're in the dev channel all the time we're in the dev channel all the time but talk to us in the normal one and but talk to us in the normal one and we'll uh we'll definitely respond to you we'll uh we'll definitely respond to you guys